Anyone.
So here is another interesting problem, which is a game theory problem.
And then it dig in to the problem.
But we will be looking by the eyes of DPI so we'll see how to solve it using dynamic programming.
Well, the problem is very simple and it's a I think the most famous problem from game theory of course
after the name games.
So the problem is that, listen, Baba playing a game of a pile of stones, so there's only one bite
of stones.
Initially they ran stones in a pile.
A player can pick up one, two or three stones from the pile, at least plays first and play as players
play.
Alternatively, the player who is unable to make the move loses the game.
It's very simple and crystal clear.
Let's play a game.
A short one.
Let's say I have.
Big stones, right?
Or.
Yeah, just.
Just an example.
Let's have, say, six stones, and Ellis is the first one to move.
So let's say Ellis picks up.
It was stones.
So as written it can he he or she can pick up other one, two or three stones.
Alice is initially picking up two stones.
Let's see.
So after this, there will be one for stones left above the liquidated.
It takes it to Alice, picks up the remains for then let's say Bob picks up Bob can pick up any from
one, two or three.
Later Bob picks up three stones eight.
If he picks up three stones, how many are left?
One is left.
Now, Alice picks up the last one.
So how many are left?
Zero.
The notes, Bob Johns.
And there are no stones left, so he will lose the game.
So basically the player is unable to make a move, loses and moves out at the peak of one, two or three
stones from the but five will lose because there are zero stones left in the pile.
Eight.
I've understood the game.
A very simple and easy game.
And also I feel free to positively do anything about this.
Him eight.
EG some more numbers don't in the Bible and so on.
So let's discuss this, Kim, and let's make it very interesting because it is actually very interesting.
And.
Academy programming is applied to this game.
A lot a lot of that improvement.
Just give me a second.
Let me draw it.
So I've just made this area and this just represents how many stones are there in the current part of
an invite rate.
So let's say initially there are 16 stone, for example, this to understand this problem and see how
to solve this.
What we'll do is we'll try to play this game in the backward manner.
So it is called backward induction.
So therefore the new programming is also right.
So the term is backward induction.
Just remember this term, because generally we use this term to solve many, many programming problems.
Why?
Because they start with the base case.
We try to move up and then we realize what are the different possible options?
I have to move to the base case and then we try to.
I know the dynamic programming states.
Let's start from backward.
Let's not play the game from 16 card and play the game from zero eight.
Let's say I'm Alice and it's my chance.
And just tell me whether I'll win or lose.
Well.
I'm Alice, right?
So just say it.
Just think I'm playing the game first.
And I'm Alice and it's my agent.
So if I have zero stones in the pile.
To let me know.
And it's my chance.
Will I win or lose?
I lose.
That's the base case.
There's the final case of the game.
But tell me if I have one.
Stone in the pile.
And I'm Alice.
I'm going to play.
It's my dance, basically.
Let's say it is a laser ball.
It doesn't matter.
Just.
Just assume that it's my johns and I'm going to play.
It's my chance to make a move.
If there is one stone in there by then, who then will win or lose?
O'Sullivan.
Right.
Because it's my chance.
I'll pick up the spoon because I have to pick up one or two or three stones.
I have just one choice.
I'll pick up this stone and I will simply.
Make the next clear move on to the losing position.
So if I pick up this tone, the next player goes on to zero eight and he will simply lose.
Cool.
It's a it should be very.
And the second is now we are on to eight.
So just think whether we'll win or lose.
I have two stones in the pile and I can pick up one, two or three stone.
I'll win right away because I will pick up both distance.
If I pick up both the stones from the pile now, there will be zero stones left.
So basically this is this transition that means from two.
I'm just giving the other play.
I'm just saying that the player what is zero and losing it because whoever plays on zero will lose it
because it's a losing position immediately to the winning version.
What about three guys in three?
We have two options.
Basically, we have three options that I pick up one stone and make the player go to two, which is
everything Boitano he didn't believe in.
And then I pick up two stones and make the other player go to one stone eight.
So one is the winning bush, and for him, then he will win.
And the third option is I can pick up three stone, all three stones.
They go from three.
If I pick up all three students, I'll simply win again because I'm making the other player go to a
losing position.
If I'm able to make the other player go to a losing position, then it becomes a winning position for.
I hope this is very clear.
Crystal clear.
So of course, this is the most simplest game that I have taken over here.
And there's a whole course on game theory that is available and I have only created the course eight.
But this is the most simple example because we are discussing one GDP.
So I just wanted to discuss this.
I would start backwards.
Then we are starting backwards.
We know what options we have.
When we know what options we have.
We can easily find out this trade in the negative relation that we want in anime programming solution.
Right now, let's talk about four.
This is the most important.
So from Ford.
Tell me I can go to three by picking up one stone.
I can make the other person go to two by picking up two stones.
Or I can make the other person go to one by picking up one stone by picking up three stones.
Right?
So I can maybe only dream of one, two or three.
And all those three options are giving the other player a winning position.
Let's say I pick up any of those options.
And the next player, which is let's say you are the next player, you will simply win by, because
we have seen that all these terrible decisions at winning positions.
I'm not able to say that.
Okay, go on the losing position.
I'm not able to force you to the losing position.
Whatever I play, you will go to the winning version and you will simply win a.
So this position becomes a losing vision for me.
I hope this is very clear.
Because what I no matter what, I play the other place going on, I've been in opposition now similarly
for five, six and seven, what will happen?
It will be a winning position for me because from five I can force the player to go to four and it's
a losing position for him.
Similarly, four from six, I can force him to go to four, which is again a losing position.
I'm seven again.
I'll force him to vote, which is a losing push.
Eight.
Similarly, from eight, I can go to seven or six or five by picking up one, two or three stones respectively.
This becomes a losing position for.
And so on day to day, you can see that there's a pattern.
It.
Okay.
So what is 16 for me?
So let's say if you have been given adequate statistics.
What will you see happening?
Bush and Obama are losing Bush.
And for me, just imagine this, that both the computers as both the players as supercomputers.
They will not make a mistake.
They will play optimally in every game to the problem.
You have to imagine this that they will play optimally.
Right.
This is the 16 is a losing position for me.
By the losing position for me, no matter what I play, I'll give the other player 13, 14 or 15 later
the other player will give me back 12, eight, which is again a losing position for me.
Then no matter what I play nine, ten or 11, you will again give me back it.
Similarly four and similarly Aries 208 was the pattern over here.
If end.
Is divided by four.
Then it's a losing position.
Or the one who is playing first.
And if and is not.
Not equal to zero.
That means it is not it is not a multiple of four than it is a winning version for me.
Because then what I can do is, let's say if I was starting at 14, I will simply give the player 12,
he will simply give me whatever and then I can give him it.
Right?
So I'll force him to use with.
So yeah.
So this is an example of a game, a game to the ground in which dynamic programming is involved.
And now you might be wondering that why or how is running programming involved?
As we can see, this is a very simple case, right?
This is a simple case because we have seen one, two and three storms from Mobile.
But in this course, we are just wondering about some major TV problems.
So we are going into specialization or anime programming.
So it will not always be one, two or three stone.
It can be some any number of stones which can have different values in it.
Like, like for seven, 12, eight.
So later we have two, we have three moves only in which I can pick up four stones, seven, seven stones
or Telstra.
That can also be another game eight even.
Let's say I can even add 15 to this.
It's generic right now.
We know how to.
I know the answer, but.
But in these cases, it won't always make a pattern.
It won't always make up it.
And so what you can do is you can develop a dynamic programming approach for this.
And how is.
This dining programming approach can reiterate what we can see.
Six little losing means zero and winning means one.
Let's take boolean values for them.
Eight.
What will be F fourth?
X x is any number of ways here.
What will be F of x if I want to find out data records of relation to where this bothered and think
about it, try to formulate indicative relation yourself with it and then I'll.
Of course, demonstrate.
What are the cases here?
The cases here are very simple, that if ethics is a winning position.
Let me you.
Basically I have three variables, which is x f of x minus one, x minus two and F of x minus three.
I will find out how to delete them by only three because I have three moves at another.
Minus one minus two a minus three.
So F of x is a winning position.
If.
Any one of them is a losing position.
But basically, this is a losing position or this is a losing position or this is a losing.
But if any one of these positions is the losing position, F of X becomes the winning position and values,
F of X, a losing position when it is always one, when all the other positions on which I can go to
one, which I can see the next player to move are winning positions.
So the current the current position becomes a losing position for it.
Can you derive a relation between F6 and F x minus one?
If it's minus two, an x minus three, it can be a very simple relation, which is.
What if?
Okay, let me think.
If any one of them is zero.
It's one at the rate it's okay.
What I can do is I can simply say and fix it.
It goes to f x minus one.
And F x minus two.
And effects minus three.
Let's dig in and let's finally do a note.
Well.
So what does this mean?
Let's understand this.
What if all three of these, which is a fixed rate, is when it fixed minus two in a fixed minus three
are one.
What if all these have been invasions?
This whole region will be fine, because after an end.
Eight We know what?
Eight What isn't it, Maya?
It's the end.
Well.
Yeah.
So the whole of the expression will give me one.
The true value and not of it will be zero.
So we are going with this case, I mean, all three of them.
What if any one of them is zero?
Or maybe two of them is zero and all three are zero.
Then what will be the value of this expression?
It will be zero.
And what is not zero?
It will be one.
Well, this particular recursive relation satisfies my above conditions and will give me a final answer.
I hope you understood this and feel free to quote this.
I use memorization and memorization.
Use a boolean area.
Eight.
But of course, some of you might be wondering why to call it because we can simply derived it from
this religion, which is and more foreign mutual aid.
If it is due to life, all it is losing at the way it's raining.
But just think about this.
That it will not always be any meaning.
It will not always be one, two or three can be any of the values in which you have to derive the relation.
And.
Right to hold every solution and finally tell me whether it's a losing position or winning.
Well.
So yeah, so this was very close in relation for this particular problem.
And you can also do a bottom up tip which is start filling from zero 1 to 3 and so on.
Dylan Or you can also call I the solution for this.
Both of them will be very easy.
They.
So thank you.
Here we have completed one more problem form from this one to anime programming.
It's in the next part.
Thanks.